# Cluster-analysis-examining-gross-and-annual-pay-for-Baltimore-City-employees-

## Background 
There have been recent changes to the Baltimore City employee compensation plan, most notably an increase in base pay to $250,000 plus moving expenses for [City Adminstrator Christopher Shorter](https://www.baltimoresun.com/politics/bs-md-ci-city-administrator-salary-20201223-ylkd3up7bfgrrcl56p7lcqafwm-story.html). This makes him one of the highest base salary earners in the City government, however it was noted that other City employees, who recieved equal to or less than this base salary, earned higher gross pay. This phenomenon begs the question, how might different job titles be clustered based on their gross and annual pay? Given the difference in gross and annual pay mentioned in recent news, this quesiton is worthy to examine to determine potential gorupings of job titles based on pay and to see trends within groups, if any. 
## Data Sources and Analytics
A cluster analysis was performed for [Baltimore City Employee Salary Data](https://data.baltimorecity.gov/browse?category=City+Government) in which four clusters were identified based on an initial scatterplot which showed annual salary vs gross pay. The two variables were spread throughout the graph and could be identified in four different quadrants, so four clusters were chosen for this analysis. The two variables examined were gross pay and annual pay and the cluster analysis calculated optimal anchor values. The amount of job titles within each cluster were also identified to understand the extent to which each cluster grouped job titles. This dataset included over 150,000 data points with different job titles so only the amount of jobs in each cluster were calculated, rather than individual titles in each cluster as this would've been impractical to view given the spread of the data and breadth of each cluster. 
